# cs465-fullstack
CS-465 Full Stack Development with MEAN
# Architecture:
- **Compare and contrast the types of frontend development you used in your full stack projects, including Express HTML, JavaScript, and the single-page application (SPA).**
    <br/>Express HTML can be used for various purposes such as serving static HTML pages to the browser, rendering HTML pages on the server and sending the finished HTML to the client, integrating with templating engines, creating REST APIs that the front-end can use to request and retrieve data, serving HTML pages that contain dynamic content. JavaScript allows you to manipulate web page elements, handle events, perform calculations, and interact with server-side resources. You need JavaScript to make "dynamic" interactions on the webpage like changing the document as the user is looking at it. A Single-page application (SPA) loads a single HTML page and then dynamically updates the page content using JavaScript, rather than loading entirely new pages for each user interaction. This improves user experience by providing a smoother and more responsive interface.
- **Why did the backend use a NoSQL MongoDB database?**
    <br/>NoSQL databases are simple to maintain. It is open-source, less costly to use, and highly scalable. NoSQL systems allow you to work with different data structures wihin a database making it easier to make modifications. 
# Functionality:
- **How is JSON different from JavaScript and how does JSON tie together the frontend and backend development pieces?**
      <br/>JavaScript is a programming language. It is one of the core technologies of the World Wide Web. It brings web pages to life. JSON is short for JavaScript Object Notation. It is a data format that is independent of any programming language. JSON is a lightweight format for storing and transporting data. One of the biggest         differences between JSON and JavaScript is the dependency on a programming language. JavaScript objects are completely dependent on JavaScript. Whereas JSON is           supported by more than 50 different programming languages. JSON data can only be presented in text. One final difference is that JSON is presented in a string.           JavaScript objects can contain strings, but they are objects which are more complex than strings. Through the use of APIs and JSON the frontend and backend are           tied together. RESTful APIs use JSON to receive requests and send responses.
- **Provide instances in the full stack process when you refactored code to improve functionality and efficiencies, and name the benefits that come from reusable user interface (UI) components.**
      <br/>Refactoring involves modifying existing code to make it more readable, maintainable, and performant without changing its external behavior. It helps keep software systems healthy and adaptable to change. There are numerous refactoring techniques such as extract method, rename variables and methods, remove code duplication, simplify conditional expressions, and optimize data structures and algorithms. Benefits that come from reusable user interface components are increased efficiency, consistency, maintainability, and improved user experience. 
# Testing:
- **Methods for request and retrieval necessitate various types of API testing of endpoints, in addition to the difficulties of testing with added layers of security. Explain your understanting of methods, endpoints, and security in a full stack application.**
 <br/>Different methods used for API requests and retrievals such as GET, POST, PUT, PATCH, and DELETE necessitate different types of testing to ensure the API functions correctly, reliably, and securely. These tests verify that each method functions as expected. GET verifies that data is correctly received. {OST tests that new resources are created successfully. PUT/PATCH validates that requests update existing resources correctly. And DELETE ensures that resources are removed successfully. API endpoint testing involves validating that an API's individual endpoints function as expected. Testing includes confirming they return the correct response, handle invalid inputs, and adhere to security measures. This ensures the API's reliability, security, and performance. 
      
# Reflection:
- **How has this course helped you in reaching your professional goals? What skills have you learned, developed, or mastered in this course to help you become a more marketable candidate in your career field?**
      <br/>This course showed how the individual pieces of web development work together to form one complete system. It was interesting to see how each component worked to complete its own job and assist other components to function as a whole. Being a full-stack developer offers many benefits such as increased versatility, greater job opportunities, and a holistic understanding of the development process. Being able to handle both the front-end and back-end development allows for a faster development cycle, enhanced problem solving, and better resource utilization.
